Hello. So this is a short video that's goingto take you through some information about thisresearch project.
If you're watching this video,you're currently taking part in a physical health study.
Here at the GM Digital research unit, our aim is to use digital technology to improve people's mental health and well-being.
With thisresearch, we're looking at the connections between physical and mental health.
Poor mental healthis linked to multiple physical health conditions and people with chronic medical conditions aremore likely to suffer from poor mental health,
so having separate approaches for the
treatment of physical and mental healthcan result in poorer outcomes.
Understanding therelationship between these two equally important aspects of people's well-being
is necessaryfor them to both be effectively treated.
We are part of the Greater ManchesterMental Health NHS Foundation Trust
and the project is linked to the University ofManchester.
These lovely people are the team
and these are the partners.
All this has been fundedby this program and approved by these committees
who work to make sure your rights and well-beingare protected.
If you volunteer to take part, we have some questionnaires for you about youremotional well-being
which will give us data to compare with your physical health study.
If youdecide not to take part, it will not affect your physical health study so it's completely up to you.
You do not need to have a history or diagnosis of mental illness or be experiencing any mental
health symptoms to take part in this research.
The research may not personally benefit you directly,
but your participation could help countless others in the future.
For example by collectingmental and physical health data together we can
design treatments for both physical and mentalhealth, identify populations whose mental health needs are not being met
and also continue toreduce the stigma around mental health conditions
We have five questionnaires for you to complete,
but you can skip any of them if you like
and even stop them halfway through if you change
your mind.
You are free to withdraw from the research project at any time
with no impact onyour physical health study.
However we won't be able to delete any questionnaires you've alreadysent us
as you never enter your name or any other personal details into the questionnaires
so we won't know which answers are yours.
We will know your physical health study IDnumber which is used to link the two sets ofdata you are contributing towards.
Our team willnot be able to link your study ID to your name,
as the physical health study teamwill keep that information private.
Data from your questionnaires will betransferred to the physical health study team
using the same safeguards that are in place for
the storage of your physical health information.
Similarly, we want to store your questionnaire
responses indefinitely so they can be used for
future research too, just like your physicalhealth study.
With your permission, we'd also love to share your non-identifiable questionnaire
data with other researchers working on similar
projects so that other researchers can use your
data to help build healthier communities too.
Your data will never be shared with your
GP or insurers, employers, telemarketers.
Finally, some members of the University of
Manchester or regulatory authorities may need to
look at the data collected in this study too, just
to make sure everything has been done as planned.
In accordance with data protection law the
University of Manchester is the data controller,
you're responsible for making sure all your
information is confidential, secure and usedonly in the way you've been told.
When we have theresults, these data will be used in academic books, reports, journals and conferences.
To comply with UKdata protection law our legal basis for collecting this research is that it is a public interest
task
and a process necessary for research purposes.
You have a number of rights under data protection
laws and there will be a link to find out more about this after this video.
Also when this videoends shortly you can see further information about this project and our past work
as well as aconsent form you'll need to fill out if you choose to take part.
There is also a link on how to removeyour data from our project, as well as contact information if you have any complaints or queriesfor the researchers.
Thanks very much for watching.